Wii Fit Plus Review
Published on November 13, 2009.
I’ve sort of been slacking with my Wii Fit schedule, but I just got Wii Fit Plus to see if I could inject some freshness into the routine.
Wii Fit Plus is the pseudo sequel to Wii Fit, which includes a few extra activities and some new features as well.
One of the first things I noticed was that the female trainer (which I usually use) is showing a bit more skin!
Take a look at some comparison shots:
Before:
After:
I also like her new hairsyle.
I wonder. If Wii Fit Plus means that the female trainer shows some more skin, will Wii Fit Plus Plus have the female trainer go topless?
I guess we have to wait to find out.
One new feature that I was excited about was the ability to set up your own routines.
So instead of picking each activity one by one, you can save a bunch and just go through them quickly without interruption.
This should have been a cool feature, but it was ruined because picking an activity automatically selects the lowest number of reps, and I do the higher number of reps for almost every strength training activity.
For example, I do 10 push-up side plank reps. But selecting it in the routine menu automatically picks 6.
You could theoretically pick the exercise twice, but that would give you 12 reps. Plus you have to stop and start again (I thought initially the program would be smart enough to just combine them into one exercise).
Nintendo lost a lot of my respect for how badly they handled this feature.
There are a lot of different ways they could have designed this, all better than the way they did design it.
They could have just combined reps as I figured they should.
They could also just ask you how many reps you wanted when you picked an exercise.
The added complexity would be justified by the fact that you’d only have to do it once.
They could have asked for default rep values somewhere else.
But instead the interaction designers (I’m assuming they have them, but now I wonder if they really do) at Nintendo decided to pull this shit.
Maybe you can tell that I’m pretty unhappy about this feature.
In the end, I think Nintendo err’ed on the side of simplicity, which ends up pleasing nobody.
I usually like the way Nintendo products are designed, and for the most part I think Wii Fit Plus is designed well, but this feature was just not fully baked.
I think I am going to email Nintendo and try and get an actual response on why this feature was done so badly.
Overall, Wii Fit Plus is better than Wii Fit because it just adds new features.
I’d question whether they are really worth the extra $20 that the upgrade costs.